---
category: Notes
url_path: '/notes'
title: 'PowerBI'

layout: null
---

## Description

The workflow of Power BI Desktop consists of 3 steps including data preparation, data modelling and data visualization. 

###1. Data Preparation

+ 1.1 After importing the data, query editor is used to prepare the data structure, e.g. merging different queries by JOIN (Full, Left, Right, Outer, Inner), cleaning the redundant data, shaping data, etc.

###2. Data Modelling

+ 2.1 This step focuses on analysing the data by modelling it to our needs.

+ 2.2 After data preparation, user is required to add relationship mapping in order to determine cardinality, cross filter direction and active properties of data.

+ 2.3 Power BI indexes the column names in different tables to determine if there are any potential relationships without predefining the foreign key. The "Autodetect" function in Power BI can find and create relationships automatically when the data is loaded. User only need to review the auto-mapping results and revise them accordingly.  Moreover, user can add calculated / logical columns and measures by using DAX function.

###3. Data Visualization

+ 3.1 User can create different charts as a dashboard in report page and then publish it to Power BI Service and Power BI Mobile for visualization to other users.

###4. Power BI limitations

+ 4.1. Power BI Desktop is only available on Windows computers.

+ 4.2 API calling to other applications is not supported

+ 4.3 The audit log focuses on function and activity level only. Details on what data and which dashboard being viewed by user cannot reflect from the audit log.

+ 4.4 The authentication of Power BI service & API is supported by Azure Active Directory only. It does not support other  third-party authentication.
